readme.md, before:

# RockFinder2

ProcessWire module, successor of RockFinder



---

Sorry for this readme! It is really not more then notes to myself. I hope I can provide a proper readme one day :)

---


```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=admin');
$f->addColumns(['title']);
db($f);
```
![img](https://i.imgur.com/0LaTBxO.png)

---

## How to create custom column types

It is really easy to create custom column types that can retrieve any data from the PW database. See this commit for two simple examples: https://github.com/BernhardBaumrock/RockFinder2/commit/54476a24c78ae4d3b6d00f8adfb2c8cd9d764b9d

If the fieldtype is of broader interest please consider making a PR. If you are the only one needing it add the type via hook.

Adding a custom column type is as simple as this:

```php
$f->addColumns(['FieldOptionsValue:your_options_fieldname']);
```

---

## Manually joining any kind of data

```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=basic-page, include=all');
$f->addColumns(['title', 'options']);
$f->query->select("opt.value AS `options.value`");
$f->query->leftjoin("fieldtype_options AS opt ON opt.option_id = _field_options.data");
db($f->getData()->data);
```
![img](https://i.imgur.com/Q3vmS2v.png)

Dumping the query object will be really helpful on such tasks!

![img](https://i.imgur.com/oF0mGyf.png)

You can also replace the field's value instead of adding it to the result:

```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=basic-page, include=all');
$f->addColumns(['title', 'options']);

$select = $f->query->select;
unset($select[2]);
$f->query->set('select', $select);


$f->query->select("opt.value AS `options`");
$f->query->leftjoin("fieldtype_options AS opt ON opt.option_id = _field_options.data");
db($f->query);
db($f->getData()->data);
```

![img](https://i.imgur.com/5OxQkbm.png)

Commit message:

add support for options field titles

readme.md, after:

# RockFinder2

ProcessWire module, successor of RockFinder



---

Sorry for this readme! It is really not more then notes to myself. I hope I can provide a proper readme one day :)

---


```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=admin');
$f->addColumns(['title']);
db($f);
```
![img](https://i.imgur.com/0LaTBxO.png)

---

## Showing the title/value of selected options instead of ID values

Options fields store 3 things in the database: The ID of the option, the value of the option and the title (for each language) of the option:

![img](https://i.imgur.com/MFZAdtX.png)

There are two custom column types to get the value or the title of a selected options field:

![img](https://i.imgur.com/woxCx78.png)
![img](https://i.imgur.com/IYPFytq.png)

Note that this does not work for multilang and multi-select yet! You can create a custom column type in that cases:

## How to create custom column types

It is really easy to create custom column types that can retrieve any data from the PW database. See this commit for two simple examples: https://github.com/BernhardBaumrock/RockFinder2/commit/54476a24c78ae4d3b6d00f8adfb2c8cd9d764b9d

If the fieldtype is of broader interest please consider making a PR. If you are the only one needing it add the type via hook.

Adding a custom column type is as simple as this:

```php
$f->addColumns(['FieldOptionsValue:your_options_fieldname']);
```

---

## Manually joining any kind of data

```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=basic-page, include=all');
$f->addColumns(['title', 'options']);
$f->query->select("opt.value AS `options.value`");
$f->query->leftjoin("fieldtype_options AS opt ON opt.option_id = _field_options.data");
db($f->getData()->data);
```
![img](https://i.imgur.com/Q3vmS2v.png)

Dumping the query object will be really helpful on such tasks!

![img](https://i.imgur.com/oF0mGyf.png)

You can also replace the field's value instead of adding it to the result:

```php
$f = new RockFinder2();
$f->find('template=basic-page, include=all');
$f->addColumns(['title', 'options']);

$select = $f->query->select;
unset($select[2]);
$f->query->set('select', $select);


$f->query->select("opt.value AS `options`");
$f->query->leftjoin("fieldtype_options AS opt ON opt.option_id = _field_options.data");
db($f->query);
db($f->getData()->data);
```

![img](https://i.imgur.com/5OxQkbm.png)
